README.md, before:

# mariadb_quick_review
A bash based version of MariaDB Review SQL script. This script is for initial review of MariaDB server for MariaDB Support tickets. This script does not create a schema or tables. In many cases, this script can be run on the database host with no modification as simply as:
```
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh

```

### Available Options
```
This script can be run without options. Not indicating an option value will use the default.
  --minutes=10         # indicate the number of minutes to collect performance statistics, default 5
  --stats_per_min=2    # indicate the number of times per minute to collect performance statistics, default 1
                       # Valid values for stats_per_min: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 20, 30, 60
  --multi_processlist  # Turns on collecting processlist with each statistics collection. Turned off by default.
  --version            # Test connect to database and display script version
  --help               # Display the help menu

  ### THE BELOW OPTIONS ARE INTEDED FOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ###
  --debug_sql             # Instead of running SQL commands, display the SQL commands that will be run
  --debug_outfiles        # view the outfiles as each is created
  --client_side_outfiles  # Force a redirect of output to files instead of SELECT INTO OUTFILE.
  --bypass_priv_check     # Bypass the check that the database user has sufficient privileges.
  --no_outfiles           # Output to stdout instead of to files

```
### Connecting with a unix socket
The most simple method for running the quick review is as root on the database server. On most servers can you can simply do this:
```
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh --minutes=10
```
### Connecting as any user and/or connecting over the network
You can define  a connection for any user and using any method that is supported by mariadb client. Edit the file quick_review.cnf. For example, a user connecting to a remote database might look like this:
```
[mariadb_quick_review]
user = mindapp
password = "NDQeJ0hA13zGtM2O$$f4haKDu"
host = mindapp.ha.db7.mariadb.com
port = 5305
ssl-ca = /etc/ssl/certs/mariadb_chain_2024.pem
```
It is recommended to define the password in the quick_review.cnf file. If you just put in `password` without `= "my_pa$$word` you will have to interactively input a password many times and the timing of performance statistics will be less useful.

Once the configuration in quick_review.cnf is correct, you can run the script as easily as:
```
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh --minutes=10
```
### How Files are Saved and Required Privileges
#### Running the mariadb_quick_review.sh script on the database host
If you simply run the script with a unix socket, your user is likely root and will already have the SUPER privilege which can do anything. 
```
$ # ON DB HOST, RUN USING DATABASE SELECT INTO OUTFILE:
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh

$ # ON DB HOST, RUN REDIRECTING OUTPUT TO FILES:
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh --client_side_outfiles
```
#### Running the mariadb_quick_review.sh script from a remote client
The mariadb_quick_review.sh will check whether the hostname for the bash shell is the same as the hostname for the database. If they are different, the script will save files on the client machine by redirect. This means you can run the script even when you do not have access to the host of the database server. Use the switch `--client_side_outfiles` to force a save using redirect from the host of the database.

## Sharing Results With MariaDB Support
When the script completes, it will archive all the output into one compressed file. The script will indictate the name of the file. It will be found in the directory /tmp/mariadb_quick_review . An example of the file name:
```
/tmp/mariadb_quick_review/QK-MjA3OD_logs_Oct-14.tar.gz
```

#### Privileges Required;
```SQL
-- GRANTS REQUIRED FOR SELECT INTO OUTFILE (SCRIPT IS RUN ON HOST OF THE DATABASE).
GRANT SELECT, PROCESS, FILE on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
-- IF INSTANCE IS A REPLICATION SLAVE, AN ADDITIONAL PRIVILEGE IS REQUIRED:
GRANT SLAVE MONITOR on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
```

```SQL
-- GRANTS REQUIRED FOR REDIRECT TO FILES
GRANT SELECT, PROCESS on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
-- IF INSTANCE IS A REPLICATION SLAVE, AN ADDITIONAL PRIVILEGE IS REQUIRED:
GRANT SLAVE MONITOR on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
```
***
## What information will mariadb_review.sql script provide to MariaDB Support team?
This script will provide the following to **MariaDB support**:
- General information about the server
- Topology information such as whether a server is a primary, a replica or a member of a Galera cluster
- A full list of global variables
- Information about user created objects
- Basic performance data that can be used as a baseline
- A list of tables and counts of primary key, unique, and non-unique indexes

This script will provide WARNINGS when they occur while collecting performance data, such as:
- A list of empty tables with large datafiles
- A list of indexes with low cardinality
- Statistics for tuning Galera cluster
- Long-running transactions that do not commit
- Blocking transactions and waiting transactions
- Deadlocks
- Transactions that cause seconds-behind-master in a replica
- Transactions that cause flow-control in Galera cluster
- High redo occupancy
- Increasing undo

Commit message:

modified:   README.md 	new file:   SQL/CURRENT_RUN.sql 	new file:   SQL/ENGINE_INNODB_STATUS.sql 	new file:   SQL/PLUGINS.sql 	modified:   SQL/PROCESSLIST.sql 	new file:   SUPPORT/ENGINE_INNODB_STATUS.tsv 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/CURRENT_RUN.csv.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/CURRENT_RUN.out.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/CURRENT_RUN.tsv.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/ENGINE_INNODB_STATUS.csv.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/ENGINE_INNODB_STATUS.out.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/ENGINE_INNODB_STATUS.tsv.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/PLUGINS.csv.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/PLUGINS.out.cnf 	new file:   SUPPORT/OPT/PLUGINS.tsv.cnf 	modified:   SUPPORT/OPT/PROCESSLIST.tsv.cnf         deleted:    SUPPORT/QK-MzEwOD_logs_Oct-14.tar.gz 	modified:   SUPPORT/SQL/CREATE_SCHEMA.sql 	new file:   SUPPORT/SQL/POST_IMPORT.sql 	modified:   SUPPORT/import_quick_review.sh 	modified:   SUPPORT/pre_import.sh 	modified:   mariadb_quick_review.sh 	new file:   old_versions/quick_review_archive_1697460659.cpio.bz2 	new file:   old_versions/quick_review_archive_1697500037.cpio.bz2 	new file:   old_versions/quick_review_archive_1697502598.cpio.bz2 	modified:   pre_quick_review.sh 	modified:   quick_review.cnf

README.md, after:

# mariadb_quick_review

To download the mariadb_quick_review script direct to your linux server, you may use git or wget:
```
git clone https://github.com/mariadb-edwardstoever/mariadb_quick_review.git
```
```
wget https://github.com/mariadb-edwardstoever/mariadb_quick_review/archive/refs/heads/main.zip
```

### Overview
A bash based version of MariaDB Review SQL script. This script is for initial review of MariaDB server for MariaDB Support tickets. This script collects data about the MariaDB server without creating any database objects. In many cases, this script can be run on the database host with no modification as simply as:
```
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh

```

### Available Options
```
This script can be run without options. Not indicating an option value will use the default value.
  --minutes=10         # indicate the number of minutes to collect performance statistics, default 5
  --stats_per_min=2    # indicate the number of times per minute to collect performance statistics, default 1
                       # Valid values for stats_per_min: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 20, 30, 60
  --multi_processlist  # Turns on collecting processlist with each statistics collection. Turned off by default.
  --test               # Test connect to database and display script version
  --version            # Test connect to database and display script version
  --help               # Display the help menu

  ### THE BELOW OPTIONS ARE INTEDED FOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ###
  --debug_sql             # Instead of running SQL commands, display the SQL commands that will be run
  --debug_outfiles        # view the outfiles as each is created
  --client_side_outfiles  # Force a redirect of output to files instead of SELECT INTO OUTFILE.
  --bypass_priv_check     # Bypass the check that the database user has sufficient privileges.
  --no_outfiles           # Output to stdout instead of to files

```
### Connecting with a unix socket
The most simple method for running the quick review is as root on the database server. On most servers can you can simply do this:
```
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh --minutes=10
```
### Connecting as any user and/or connecting over the network
You can define  a connection for any user and using any method that is supported by mariadb client. Edit the file quick_review.cnf. For example, a user connecting to a remote database might look like this:
```
[mariadb_quick_review]
user = mindapp
password = "NDQeJ0hA13zGtM2O$$f4haKDu"
host = mindapp.ha.db7.mariadb.com
port = 5305
ssl-ca = /etc/ssl/certs/mariadb_chain_2024.pem
```
It is recommended to define the password in the quick_review.cnf file. If you just put in `password` without `= "my_pa$$word` you will have to interactively input a password many times and the timing of performance statistics will be less useful.

Once the configuration in quick_review.cnf is correct, you can run the script as easily as:
```
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh --minutes=10
```
### How Files are Saved and Required Privileges
#### Running the mariadb_quick_review.sh script on the database host
If you simply run the script with a unix socket, your user is likely root and will already have the SUPER privilege which can do anything. 
```
$ # ON DB HOST, RUN USING DATABASE SELECT INTO OUTFILE:
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh

$ # ON DB HOST, RUN REDIRECTING OUTPUT TO FILES:
$ ./mariadb_quick_review.sh --client_side_outfiles
```
#### Running the mariadb_quick_review.sh script from a remote client
The mariadb_quick_review.sh will check whether the hostname for the bash shell is the same as the hostname for the database. If they are different, the script will save files on the client machine by redirect. This means you can run the script even when you do not have access to the host of the database server. Use the switch `--client_side_outfiles` to force a save using redirect from the host of the database.

## Sharing Results With MariaDB Support
When the script completes, it will archive all the output into one compressed file. The script will indictate the name of the file. It will be found in the directory /tmp/mariadb_quick_review . An example of the file name:
```
/tmp/mariadb_quick_review/QK-MjA3OD_logs_Oct-14.tar.gz
```

#### Privileges Required;
```SQL
-- GRANTS REQUIRED FOR SELECT INTO OUTFILE (SCRIPT IS RUN ON HOST OF THE DATABASE).
GRANT SELECT, PROCESS, FILE on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
-- IF INSTANCE IS A REPLICATION SLAVE, AN ADDITIONAL PRIVILEGE IS REQUIRED:
GRANT SLAVE MONITOR on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
```

```SQL
-- GRANTS REQUIRED FOR REDIRECT TO FILES
GRANT SELECT, PROCESS on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
-- IF INSTANCE IS A REPLICATION SLAVE, AN ADDITIONAL PRIVILEGE IS REQUIRED:
GRANT SLAVE MONITOR on *.* to 'adminuser'@'%';
```
***
## What information will mariadb_review.sql script provide to MariaDB Support team?
This script will provide the following to **MariaDB support**:
- General information about the server
- Topology information such as whether a server is a primary, a replica or a member of a Galera cluster
- A full list of global variables
- Information about user created objects
- Basic performance data that can be used as a baseline
- A list of tables and counts of primary key, unique, and non-unique indexes

This script will provide WARNINGS when they occur while collecting performance data, such as:
- A list of empty tables with large datafiles
- A list of indexes with low cardinality
- Statistics for tuning Galera cluster
- Long-running transactions that do not commit
- Blocking transactions and waiting transactions
- Deadlocks
- Transactions that cause seconds-behind-master in a replica
- Transactions that cause flow-control in Galera cluster
- High redo occupancy
- Increasing undo
